[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: We talked
about merge sort just barely.
And we're gonna talk about one more
divide-and-conquer type algorithm,
called Quick Sort.
Before we get started, is there anyone
have questions that they would like
answered about any of the previous
sorts about recursion, about big-O,
any of that stuff?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I must be
explaining it perfectly that so awesome.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's go down here to Quick Sort.
Now like if you look at like the gift
on this, it just looks erratic, right?
Like what the hell is
actually happening there.
So it's actually not super
helpful to visualize it but
it's kind of fun to look at right?
So Quick Sort is certainly one of the most
powerful sorting algorithms out there and
luckily it's actually not super hard
to conceptualize, once you have
a conceptualized merge sort because
there's some similar ideas at play here.
And when I mentioned above that
JavaScript doesn't always do merge sort,
at the times it is not doing merge so
it's doing Quicksort, just so you know.
Or some variation of Quicksort,
the thing about Quicksort is there's like
70 variations of how to do Quicksort or
we're gonna do like Quicksort
like the original Quicksort.
And all the variations aimed to solve one
problem which is the pivot problem, but
we'll talk about that at the end.
>> Brian Holt: So it's another divide and
conquer, AKA it is recursive.
But it takes a slightly
different approach and
the basic gist of Quicksort is
you have your array, right?
So let's draw out an array here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so you have an array of like,
>> Brian Holt: 5,
7, 4 9 and
let's do 6, okay?
So that's our array right there.
Now the first we're gonna do is
we're gonna pick up pivot, right?
Now where you choose
that pivot is up to you.
I recommend just following what I'm doing
cuz that's easiest hence, why choose it.
We're going to pick the last number
in the array to be the pivot.
So this is the pivot.
Look that's readable English good job,
Brian.
Okay, so this is now our pivot.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to construct two lists right
just like we do with Mercer we did left
and right, but what we're going to do is
the left lists or the lesser list,
however you want to call it.
It's gonna be all the numbers
that's smaller than six, okay?
Everything is going into the right
list as you might have guessed
is everything is greater, right?
And it doesn't matter,
we put the or equal to it's long as it
consistently goes to the same place.
It either always goes left or
always goes right.
I think I always put in the left but
again up to you.
Okay?
So in this particular case,
I'm going to put everything into
the left list that's smaller than 6.
So I am gonna put 5 and 4, right?
And then everything that goes into
the right list is going to be larger.
So, it's gonna be 7, 9 right?
And then I'll just have this pivot here,
right?
Now at least all those
are sort of good okay.
So, going back to here.
>> Brian Holt: Not that one.
Through that.
>> Brian Holt: So
and then what we're gonna do is,
now that we've divided into smaller lists,
we're going to call Quicksort
on the smaller lists, right?
That's the recursive of part of this
algorithm that we're gonna have.
The lesser list, the greater list, and
then we're gonna call
Quicksort on both of those.
And then essentially we're just going
to trust that Quicksort's gonna do
something correct and return you
a sort of list and then we're going to
concatenate the left list, the pivot and
then the right list, right?
I shouldn't gotten rid of that.
Well, it's okay,
actually I think I can bring it back.
>> Brian Holt: Yes,
right there.
>> Brian Holt: [COUGH] So
if you wanna take this further,
what we're going to do is this
four is going to be the pivot
at this point, right?
So we're gonna then call
Quicksort on an empty list and
then we're going to call
Quicksort on five, right?
So what's the base case?
The base case is if you have
a list of either empty or
one right because that's already sorted
and then so this is the base case and
all it's going to do is return.
So I have an empty list then I'm going
to concatenate that empty list of so
it's going to be empty list which
is nothing then it's going to be
the pivot which is four and
then it's going to be five, right?
Or basically this entire list right here,
right?
Okay, so that returns up here.
So now this is sorted and so
we’re gonna call Quicksort on this, right?
Which as you might imagine
just breaks it down
into a list of 7.
>> Brian Holt: The pivot and
an empty list, right?
It’s like it’s nothing
actually happens there, right?
It's going to return 7, 9 up here.
Okay and then up here now,
I have 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, right?
So how do I wanna do this?
>> Brian Holt: So
here, I just clear this I guess.
>> Brian Holt: And say no, there we go.
So I had 4,5.
I had 6 and I had 7,9, right?
So here, I'm gonna take the first
list which is gonna be 4,
5 put in the pivot and
then put in the second
list.
>> Brian Holt: And
that's it, that's the entire
essence of what Quicksort is.
Cuz you're breaking down
again with the smallest,
making one list, all smaller numbers
one to solve the greater numbers.
And then call Quicksort on those.
And when it comes back, you're going to
concatenate left list, then the pivot and
then the right list.
And so, as you may have gotten, but
I haven't necessarily explicitly said,
the pivot doesn't actually get passed
down into either left or the right list,
it just stays in that function,
and then when those functions return,
then it does that concatenation.
But the pivot never gets passed down,
the pivot just stays at that level of
recursion.
>> Brian Holt: So
if you come back here,
>> Brian Holt: Notice when I call so
this is the pivot,
6 doesn't get passed into either one
of these lists right here, right?
Okay any questions conceptually
about what Quicksort
is doing?
>> Brian Holt: It's kind of a mess to
diagram, as you can see
by my chicken scratch but
hopefully that makes some sense.
>> Speaker 2: Got
a question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: From Mark,
how do you pick a pivot when you're
working with strings instead of numbers.
>> Brian Holt: How do you pick up, so
the pivot is just always going
to be the last one, right?
Whether it's strings,
objects, whatever the pivot.
In this particular case,
we're always going to choose the last one.
We'll talk about in a second why that can
possibly be a bad thing for Quicksort.
But in this particular case,
it works out okay.
>> Brian Holt: The question that you might
be getting at in terms of strings versus
numbers versus objects versus anything is
you need some way to always compare,
like to compare them correctly, right?
So with the string usually you're
thinking alphabetical order,
right?
>> Brian Holt: And so
the pivot is just always gonna be the last
item and you're just gonna compare is this
first in the alphabet or
is this last in the alphabet, right?
And then things that are lesser
in the alphabet on the left.
Things that are greater in
the alphabet won't go on the right.
And that's the same gist,
and it works the same way,
no matter if you're comparing numbers,
strings, or objects, or anything, right?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So Drew is asking,
why last instead of first?
>> Brian Holt: You can do first.
It just makes the numbers work easily,
'cuz otherwise when you're doing like
the math of like what index to put
the right and what index to put the right.
You just have to add one to everything and
it's annoying.
But, it doesn't actually
matter what your pivots are.
We just chose to last to make
it easier to do, right?.
We're gonna talk about Quicksort three
at the end which actually does some
variations on what the pivot is and
that's again, when you're
doing Quicksort all the variations
come from choosing the pivot, right?
The actual algorithm of splitting left and
right that's what makes Quicksort,
Quicksort.
It's choosing the pivot that
often ends up being the point of
discussion.
>> Brian Holt: So, yeah,
good question.
>> Brian Holt: But believe me,
if you're doing this probably now I
suggested the last any array because,
it makes it simpler it
makes your code simpler.
I think it does.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's just go through
another example right here.
Okay?
So we have this original list of 4,
9, 3, 5.
The last number is 5.
So 5 has made the pivot since
it's the last in the array.
Then we're gonna divide into two lists,
4 and 3, right,
that goes in the left list, and
9 goes in the right list, okay?
And then we're gonna call Quicksort
individually on each one of those.
So now 3 is the pivot, so
you call Quicksort on blank and 4.
Those both instantly return because
those are the base case of length 1 or
length 0, okay?
So then you concatenate empty array which
is gonna do essentially nothing, right?
You're gonna concatenate 3 and then you're
gonna concatenate the array which has 4 in
it which is going to give you 3, 4, right?
That returns up, okay, so
now that side's done and
we're gonna work on this array
which is just the base case right?
It's length 1 so it just returns because
it's already sorted and it's length 1.
And then we're going to call concatenate
on 3, 4, 5 which is the pivot,
and then 9 which is going to give you 3,
4, 5, 9.
Magic, right?
No, it's just algorithms, awesome.
Okay, any questions on that?
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
So what's the big O here.
Well we're still at in login.
Quicksort is often faster than
merge sort which is why a lot of
times people tend to use it more quick
like they're more apt to use that.
Like for example there's lots of languages
that have a Q Sort function like I think
PHP has one and other languages do.
Q Sort means Quicksort, right?
So this is what it's doing
underneath the hood.
The reason why it's not necessarily
always done is because it does
have a bad worse case scenario.
You actually can get n squared with
Quicksort is just pretty rare and
the reason why you can't get n squared
is if you pass it a sorted list and
you're always taking the last pivot,
let's just diagram that real quick
to see what that might look like.
So if I have 1, 2, 3, 4 and I call,
now we're going to say my pivot here is 4,
I'm gonna end up with a list of 1,
2, 3, right?
And 4 is my pivot and then blank, and then
this is gonna call it Quicksort with 3
as the pivot and
you're gonna end up with 1, 2, right?
With the pivot here and
blank over here as well, right?
So, one side of the Quicksort
is always going be blank, right?
So that means everything is eventually
going to get compared to everything
which is what we're trying to avoid,
right?
Which is why if you pass a sorted
array to a normal Quicksort,
it hits its worst case scenario and
it's really slow.
Well, comparatively slow anyway, right?
So, we'll get into a second how to solve
that with choosing your pivot, but
we'll talk about that
after we do the exercise.